index.md, before:

---
title       : Are you smarter than a. . .
subtitle    : . . .machine learning feature selection algorithm?
author      : Patricia Tressel
job         : Class project for Developing Data Products
framework   : io2012        # {io2012, html5slides, shower, dzslides, ...}
highlighter : highlight.js  # {highlight.js, prettify, highlight}
hitheme     : tomorrow      # 
widgets     : []            # {mathjax, quiz, bootstrap}
mode        : selfcontained # {standalone, draft}
knit        : slidify::knit2slides
---

## Why try feature selection?

- Feature selection is:
  - Picking predictors to use for machine learning prediction
  - The least advanced part of machine learning
  - Still dependent on human assistance, e.g. domain knowledge
- But it's important:
  - Unneeded features slow down classifier training
  - Junk features can facilitate overfitting

---

## Try doing it yourself!

- This app lets you:
  - Compare features and outcome in a dataset
  - Select features, train the classifier, see the accuracy
  - Try to get the highest accuracy with fewest features
- Would you keep both these features? Hmm...

![plot of chunk feature_plot](assets/fig/feature_plot-1.png) 

---

## Behind the scenes

- What is the app doing?
  - Uses the South Africa heart disease dataset
    from the R [ElemStatLearn package](http://www.inside-r.org/packages/cran/ElemStatLearn)
  - Trains a support vector machine with polynomial kernel
    from the R [kernlab package](http://www.inside-r.org/packages/cran/kernlab)
  - Shows cross-validation accuracy
- Ready to play?
  - [Try it out](https://ptressel.shinyapps.io/feature_selection_app)

---

## More...

- To explore feature selection
  - Excellent (if dated) [review](http://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume3/guyon03a/guyon03a.pdf)
  - Recent high-level [overview](http://machinelearningmastery.com/an-introduction-to-feature-selection/)
  - What's [available in the R caret package](http://machinelearningmastery.com/feature-selection-with-the-caret-r-package/)
- How can the app be improved?
  - Add other dataset and classifier options
  - Include automated feature selection for comparison
  - Post suggestions at the [Github repository](https://github.com/ptressel/feature_selection_app)!

Commit message:

Add info on why feature selection is hard.

index.md, after:

---
title       : Are you smarter than a. . .
subtitle    : . . .machine learning feature selection algorithm?
author      : Patricia Tressel
job         : Class project for Developing Data Products
framework   : io2012        # {io2012, html5slides, shower, dzslides, ...}
highlighter : highlight.js  # {highlight.js, prettify, highlight}
hitheme     : tomorrow      # 
widgets     : [mathjax]            # {mathjax, quiz, bootstrap}
mode        : selfcontained # {standalone, draft}
knit        : slidify::knit2slides
---

## Why try feature selection?

- Feature selection is:
  - Picking predictors to use for machine learning prediction
  - The least advanced part of machine learning
  - Still dependent on human assistance, e.g. domain knowledge
- But it's important:
  - Unneeded features slow down classifier training
  - Junk features can facilitate overfitting
- And hard (literally -- it's intractable):
  - On a dataset with $N$ features, finding the best means checking $2^N$ combinations
  - The most useful features may depend on the specific classifier

---

## Try doing it yourself!

- This app lets you:
  - Compare features and outcome in a dataset
  - Select features, train the classifier, see the accuracy
  - Try to get the highest accuracy with fewest features
- Would you keep both these features? Hmm...

![plot of chunk feature_plot](assets/fig/feature_plot-1.png) 

---

## Behind the scenes

- What is the app doing?
  - Uses the South Africa heart disease dataset
    from the R [ElemStatLearn package](http://www.inside-r.org/packages/cran/ElemStatLearn)
  - Trains a support vector machine with polynomial kernel
    from the R [kernlab package](http://www.inside-r.org/packages/cran/kernlab)
  - Shows cross-validation accuracy
- This is a tricky dataset for feature selection
  - No clear un-useful features
  - Small dataset size
  - Few features are highly correlated
- Ready to play?
  - [Try it out](https://ptressel.shinyapps.io/feature_selection_app)

---

## More...

- To explore feature selection
  - Excellent (if dated) [review](http://www.jmlr.org/papers/volume3/guyon03a/guyon03a.pdf)
  - Recent high-level [overview](http://machinelearningmastery.com/an-introduction-to-feature-selection/)
  - What's [available in the R caret package](http://machinelearningmastery.com/feature-selection-with-the-caret-r-package/)
- How can the app be improved?
  - Add other dataset and classifier options
  - Include automated feature selection for comparison
  - Post suggestions at the [Github repository](https://github.com/ptressel/feature_selection_app)!
